feat(memory): add a git-shared team memory tier (#5886)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/users/features/memory.md

Enable it per project (or globally) in `settings.json`:

```json
{
  "memory": {
    "enableTeamMemory": true
  }
}
```

It is **off by default**. Keep these caveats in mind:

- **It is source-controlled and visible to everyone with repo access.** Treat a team memory like committing to the repo.
- **Secrets are blocked.** Writes to `.qwen/team-memory/` are scanned for credentials (API keys, tokens, private keys); a detected secret is rejected, never written. The scan is a backstop, not a guarantee — don't put sensitive data there.
- **Changes are reviewable.** Team memory writes appear in `git status` / the PR diff like any other file, so they can be reviewed before they're committed. In the default approval mode Qwen also asks before each team write; in `AUTO_EDIT`/YOLO mode (where you've opted into auto-approval) they are applied without a prompt but still surface in the diff.

> - **The directory must be git-tracked.** If your project's `.gitignore` excludes `.qwen/*`, re-include the path so it can be shared:

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This git-tracking remedy silently fails for the common `.gitignore` *directory* form, with no signal — the whole tier can be silently inert.

The re-include works only because *this* repo ignores `.qwen/*` (the contents glob). Verified with git: a downstream repo that ignores `.qwen/` (directory form, trailing slash — very common) **cannot** re-include `.qwen/team-memory/`, because git never descends into an excluded directory, so the `!`-lines are a no-op:

```
.qwen/*  + the two !-lines  → notes.md TRACKED
.qwen/   + the two !-lines  → notes.md IGNORED (silent)
```

A team enables the tier, follows these exact docs, Qwen writes memories locally, `git status` shows nothing, teammates receive nothing — while the model’s own prompt asserts "the repo’s normal git workflow carries it to teammates." (Same silent-inert outcome when there is no git root: team memory falls back to a local, unshared dir.)

**Suggested fix:** (a) add a docs caveat that a `.qwen/` (directory-form) ignore must be changed to `.qwen/*` first; and (b) a one-time runtime warning when the tier is enabled but `git check-ignore` reports the dir is ignored (or there is no git root) — one check that catches every silent-inert variant.

_— claude-opus-4-8[1m] via Qwen Code /qreview_

`QWEN_CODE_MEMORY_TEAM=1` / `=0` overrides the setting for a single run.

### Automatic git sync (optional)

By default you share team memory with the normal git workflow (`pull` to receive, `commit`/`push` to share). To have Qwen do it for you, enable sync:

```json
{
  "memory": {
    "enableTeamMemory": true,
    "enableTeamMemorySync": true
  }
}
```

When on, at session start Qwen best-effort commits the `.qwen/team-memory/` directory, fast-forward-pulls collaborators' updates, and pushes yours — so the index you load reflects the latest. It only **stages** the team directory (your other working changes are never committed), and never blocks the session on a git failure. Off by default. `QWEN_CODE_MEMORY_TEAM_SYNC=1` / `=0` overrides the setting for a single run.

Two things to know before enabling it:

> - **Pull and push act on your whole current branch, not just `.qwen/team-memory/`** (git has no path-scoped pull/push). So sync will fast-forward your branch to the remote tip and push any unpushed commits you already have on it. Enable it on branches where that is fine — or run it on a dedicated checkout.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This doc now contradicts the shipped `local-ahead` guard. It states sync will "push any unpushed commits you already have on it," but the hardened code does the opposite: if the branch was already ahead of upstream before the sync (`wasAheadBeforeSync`), the push is deliberately skipped (`skippedReason='local-ahead'`), and the new test "does not push commits the sync did not create" asserts exactly that. As written, the user-facing safety contract is backwards.

```suggestion
- **Pull and push act on your whole current branch, not just `.qwen/team-memory/`** (git has no path-scoped pull/push). So sync fast-forwards your branch to the remote tip and pushes **only the team-memory commit it just created** — if your branch already has other unpushed commits, sync makes the commit but skips the push (surfaced as `local-ahead`) and you push manually. Enable it on branches where that is fine — or run it on a dedicated checkout.
```

_— claude-opus-4-8[1m] via Qwen Code /qreview_

> - **Pull and push act on your whole current branch, not just `.qwen/team-memory/`** (git has no path-scoped pull/push). So sync will fast-forward your branch to the remote tip and push any unpushed commits you already have on it. Enable it on branches where that is fine — or run it on a dedicated checkout.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Two doc/code inconsistencies in this new section:

1. The sync description above (line 164) says "commits the `.qwen/team-memory/` directory, fast-forward-pulls collaborators' updates, and pushes yours" — but the hardened code does the **opposite** order: pull (reconcile) first, then commit, then push. The JSDoc in `team-memory-sync.ts` correctly says "fast-forward-only PULL first (reconcile), THEN commit the local team path on top of upstream, THEN push."

2. This bullet claims sync will "push any unpushed commits you already have on it" — but the `wasAheadBeforeSync` guard explicitly **prevents** this. When the branch was already ahead of upstream before sync, the push is skipped with `skippedReason: 'local-ahead'`. The test "does not push commits the sync did not create" verifies this refusal.

```suggestion
- **Pull and push act on your whole current branch, not just `.qwen/team-memory/`** (git has no path-scoped pull/push). So sync will fast-forward your branch to the remote tip, but it only pushes the commit it just created — pre-existing unpushed commits on your branch are never published by sync. Enable it on branches where a fast-forward pull is fine — or run it on a dedicated checkout.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **A diverged branch is left untouched** (`--ff-only` never merges). When that happens sync simply does nothing that session; resolve the divergence (`git pull`) and it resumes. A branch with no upstream commits locally but has nothing to push.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This sentence is grammatically broken — it reads as a fragment with two conflicting verb phrases joined by "but":

> A branch with no upstream commits locally but has nothing to push.

Suggested rewrite:

> A branch with no upstream (no tracking configuration) commits locally but skips the push — there is nowhere to push to.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_
